= Xerblin - UI and Social Network =

== The Problem (that we solve) ==

Computers exist and are ever more ubiquitous, yet they remain hard to
understand, hard to use, and a source of dangerous errors.

Most of these problems can be traced to UI issues.  Our machines are
harder to use than they have to be (sometimes to the point of physical
danger) because we have made them that way.

(Haven't you cursed out loud because of an interface PITA?)

== Our Solution ==

"Make it as simple as possible, but no simpler." -a smart fellow.

Between the machine language and the users' models there are only
abstractions, names for behavior.  In modern systems, these abstractions
number in the thousands.  Users confronted with only 1% of the complexity
of their machines must still joust with TENS of concepts to even begin to
use them in the crudest ways.

Xerblin is a simple metaphor for computation.  It can be taught quickly
to any normal adult or child, and it is Turing-complete.

There are less than a dozen concepts to grasp to master it completely,
and they hang together in a smoothly synchronized manner to make the
system extraordinarily fluid to use.

Also, it is taught and learned in the context of a "thick" social
network.  "Thick" in this context means lots of personal interaction
(social functions, Pot Latch "Tupperware Party" gatherings, live demos,
presence at conferences and flea markets, etc...) and high-bandwidth comms
(video chat for consultation and customizing or troubleshooting, lots of
vids on YouTube showing how to do things, feeds both audio and video,
etc...)

Anyone can be a Power User using Xerblin, and a crowd of happy friendly
people are willing and able to show you how.

== Underlying Magic ==

One, the UI.  It's golden.  It gets rid of 98% of the UI garbage that
drains all of our productivity all the time and it makes it so that
people like my mom, who can solve sudoku puzzles but not grapple with
the intricacies of Windows or even Word, can GROK their machines and
boss them themselves.

One "principal" of the system is, roughly, "one Command per user
Intention".  If that ever stops being the case (I'll talk more about
that in a sec) then one calls in one's friendly neighborhood Codesmith
to adjust the command(-set).  I envision a network of people with
graduated degrees of knowledge (more like Bay Scout merit badges than
classes or grades) who can be on call to help others "fix" their UIs
to be just how they like them.  There will be also gradations of
remuneration from unpaid volunteer and intern work to professional
service contracts with businesses.

About "one Command per user Intention", generally users will have a
small set of Purposes they use their computer for-- mindless
entertainment counts too for our purposes :) no pun intended.  We
basically want the person (my mom!) to be able to sit down at her
computer with a task in mind and click ONE BUTTON to "do" it.   She
might have to select some arguments for her command, heck here's an
example:

Mom wants to write an email to her sister.  She types (the system has
a Text open already) "Janna" "some subject" "balh blah blah yackity
yak etc" into the text, makes three gestures with the mouse to put
three arguments onto the stack and right clicks "email".  We assume
the email command already knows how to search and find aunt Janna's
email addy.

Already there is an improvement we can offer my mom: make the email
command able to tease out the three args from one string itself.  Then
mom can just make one mouse gesture.  etc etc etc...

You can extrapolate a lot from there I think, but the point is this:
anytime user's using the computer and thinks "Hey, I wish it worked
/this/ way" she can hit a "change UI" command that connects her with
real people "Codesmiths" and Hey Presto!  It /does/ work like that
now.

AND, drumroll please, if that INNOVATION is good enough, the
codesmiths turn around, bundle it up with some icing and
documentation, and send it out into the social network marketplace to
sink or swim in the UI meme pool.  As the original innovator mom gets
a cut, as do the Codesmiths, Docwriters, etc..

Which brings up the "long-chain" affiliate "program".  Basically I
want to create an affiliate network for these UI innovations (and
other media, but let's not get ahead of ourselves) with the
distinction of having LONG "chains" or tiers of at least six degrees.
The idea is to create a sort of dendrite network that filters all the
content passing through it, routing new info to the nodes (people!)
who can use it best, and promoting a sort of ferment of continuous UI
improvement.  There's a lot more but I want to get to sleep soon. :D

I need to find more cheap or free machines that I can convert, plan and
host my first "tupperware party", get video gear to film both the
party and my mom and sister learning and using the system, and finish
up the actual software to the point where subjecting my nearest and
dearest to it won't be needlessly cruel. 